Blog - How to create personas (#7059)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/how-to-create-personas.md

Reviewer: One thing to clarify throughout persona vs user persona. By saying user persona is different then personas generally, it is kind of confusing throughout when you refer to a user persona with just "persona".

Reviewer 2: +1. A slightly more eye-catching / less generic headline would help, too.

Author: >  Settle on a headline

Went with "How to create a great user persona (with examples)"

> Add internal links to this guide

We dont have any naturally occuring keywords in other docs for this, but I've added it to the Further reading section of a few blogs

---
title: How to create user personas
date: 2023-10-30
author: ["lior-neu-ner"]
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Surveys
  - User research
  - Product engineers
  - Product
---

The best products are built by engineers that deeply understand their users' problems. A great way to do this is by creating user personas and building with them in mind. But what are they exactly? And what makes a good one?

> In this post we'll dive into those answers, as well as show you how to create your own one.

Reviewer 2: Agree about the intro, but I'd suggest doing something similar to what we did on Ian's guardrail metrics guide: https://posthog.com/blog/guardrail-metrics

In other words. start with the H2 "What are user personas?" or whatever that should be. Start with the definition / explanation, then explain the benefits something like Ian's suggestion above. 

This is just a bit more efficient for the reader. For these kinds of articles, intros often feel like pointless preamble. The headline explains what the article is about, so we don't need to state that. Google also seems to be favouring articles that "get to the point" quickly, so this is a good quality signal.

Hope that makes sense, but TL;DR look at the guardrails article and copy that approach. :)

## What are user personas

Personas are a generalized way of talking about the people who are using your product. This enables you to visualize and empathize with them while you're building your app.

This is different from other personas, like buyer personas or ideal customer profiles (ICPs), who may not actually use your product. 

Here's a quick comparison:

- **ICP:** Companies that buy your product.
- **Buyer:** The person who sign off on the purchase.
- **User:** The people who actually use your product. 

As an example, here's how these different personas look like for our company:

> ![ICP vs buyer persona vs user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/posthog-personas.png)

Reviewer 2: Agree with Ian on this one.

<Caption>Our ICP are companies that have engineers as decision makers. The buyer is the VP of engineering, but the actual users are the developers in the company.
<br/><br/>
Credit to <a href="https://www.developermarkepear.com/blog/developer-personas">developer markepear</a> for the original image.</Caption>

> ## What makes a good user persona

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What makes a good user persona?
```

> A great persona enables you to clearly picture who your user is. To do this, your persona needs to include the following information:
> 
> 1. **Job Summary** – your user's skills and responsibilities. 
> 2. **Motivation** – what their goals are.
> 3. **Frustrations** – what's blocking them from achieving their goals.
> 
> If it helps you visualize your user, you can also include other information such as workflows, tools, or jobs to be done.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A great persona needs three things:

1. **Job Summary** – your user's skills and responsibilities. 
2. **Motivation** – what their goals are.
3. **Frustrations** – what's blocking them from achieving their goals.

If it helps you visualize your user, you can also include other information such as workflows, tools, or jobs to be done.
```

Below are three examples of what user personas could look like for different companies:

![Vercel user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/vercel-persona.png)
![Github user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/github-persona.png)

> ![Asana user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/asana-persona.png)

Reviewer 2: I think the graphics are fine, we just need some copy for each that (very briefly) summarizes the persona. For example:

```
Vercel's primary user persona is front-end developers who are frustrated with the complexity of server maintenance and traditional hosting solutions.

[IMAGE]

GitHub etc etc.
```

| **Founder** | I feel overwhelmed by the volume of emails I receive daily. It's hard to prioritize tasks. | Email overload, prioritization |
| **Developer** | The search function in my email client is too slow, making it hard to find old emails. | Slow search |
| **Head of Product** | Due to the high volume of status updates I get via email, it's challenging to understand the overall project progress. | Email overload, project management |

In the above, we see that your core users are **senior leaders** and the two most common themes are **email overload** and **prioritization**. Thus you'll include this in your persona.

### Step 3: Combine your data with product analytics

Now that you have your qualitative data, you can combine it with quantitative data to paint a clear picture of your who your users are. 

Product analytics unlocks key insights into how users that match your persona are using your product, and whether their stated problems and behaviors align with real-world usage.

For example, continuing on our previous example of an email app, we could use product analytics to answer the following questions:

> | Theme               | Data questions    |

Reviewer: I think you should just list the questions here and mention the themes before.

|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Email Overload**             | How many emails do they receive every day?                                                          |
|                                | How much time do they spend in the app compared to other users?                                    |
|                                | Which folders or categories have the highest volume of unread emails?                              |
| **Prioritization**             | What percentage of users who mention "prioritization" use features related to sorting or flagging emails? |
|                                | Are there features within the product they aren't using that could help address this problem?      |
|                                | How frequently do these users set reminders or snooze emails?                                      |

> To help you brainstorm questions to ask for your own product, here's a list of common insights to dig into:

Reviewer: What specific insights should they look at here?

- Percentage of users that match a persona filter
- Cohort persona filter
- Feature usage with person filter
- User path with persona filter

Maybe it is worth mentioning it is easiest to create a persona filter

Author: It's not clear to me what you are suggesting, but my understanding is that most of these questions are covered in the list below?

Re "easiest to create a persona filter": Added now.

Reviewer: I guess the below points answer these 😄

- How often do users who match your persona use your product?
- What are their most used features?
- Which features are rarely or never used?
- Are there common drop-off points or areas of friction?
- How do users from different job titles or roles use the product differently?

### Step 4: Put it all together

> You should now have enough information build your persona. You persona should be detailed enough that it accurately represents your user, but concise enough that it's easily understood by your team.

Reviewer: Should add to summarize what you've learned into the job summary, motivations, and frustrations. This step isn't super actionable as is.

Reviewer 2: Additional question... how many personas should a product have? You mentioned GitHub has 16 earlier, why's that? Worth exploring this briefly.

Finishing our email app example, here's what the user persona looks like:

![The user persona for our example email app](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/email-app-example-persona.png)

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: Again, this section isn't super actionable. 

When exactly should they use it? 
- Roadmap
- Strategic planning

An example would be great. When does PostHog use our user persona? For example, developing PostHog 3000 to be more engineering focused.

This is different from other personas, like buyer personas or ideal customer profiles (ICPs), who may not actually use your product. 

Here's a quick comparison:

- **ICP:** Customers (companies, teams, or individuals) that buy your product.
- **Buyer:** The person who sign off on the purchase.
- **User:** The people who actually use your product. 

As an example, here's how these different personas look like for our product:

![ICP vs buyer persona vs user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/posthog-personas-compared.png)

## What makes a good user persona?

A great persona needs three things:

1. **Job Summary** – your user's skills and responsibilities. 
2. **Motivation** – what their goals are.
3. **Frustrations** – what's blocking them from achieving their goals.

If it helps you visualize your user, you can also include other information such as workflows, tools, or jobs to be done.

Below are three examples of what user personas could look like for different companies:

> 1. **Vercel**'s primary user persona is a front-end developer who wants simple solutions to deploying and hosting apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Vercel's** primary user persona is a front-end developer who wants simple solutions to deploying and hosting apps.
```

![Vercel user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/vercel-persona.png)

> 2. **Github's**'s primary user persona is a software engineer who wants an easy way to maintain and collaborate on code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Github's** primary user persona is a software engineer who wants an easy way to maintain and collaborate on code.
```

![Github user persona](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/github-persona.png)

> 3. **Asana's**'s primary user persona is a project manager who wants to track tasks and deliver successful projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Asana's** primary user persona is a project manager who wants to track tasks and deliver successful projects.
```

![The user persona for our example email app](../images/blog/how-to-create-personas/email-app-example-persona.png)

## Next steps

Your user persona is the voice of your user. It should guide your product development and company strategy. 

Incorporate them into team meetings and encourage your team to always ask, "How will this benefit our key user personas?". By doing so, you build a culture of empathy for your users, ensuring that you make the best products for them.

For instance, at PostHog our product teams use our personas to create their team mission, values, and quarterly goals. Since our company handbook is public, you can view precisely how by visiting each team's page – e.g., our [Feature Success](/handbook/small-teams/feature-success#personas) and [Web Analytics](/handbook/small-teams/web-analytics#who-are-we-building-for) teams.

## Frequently asked questions

### How many user personas should I have?

There are two things to remember:

- The more personas you have, the greater the chance team members will not remember information about them.
- Your user personas should focus on your most important user groups — those people you really want your product to reach.

> With this in mind, having only one user persona may be enough. You should have at most five, though.

Author: Would love feedback on this:

Is it strange to have an FAQ section with only one question?

The bit on " How many user personas should I have?" felt too long to put into another section. At the same time, I dont want to needlessly add filler questions to the FAQ

Reviewer: It is a bit awkward, maybe as a quote callout after:

"If you're looking for more examples, GitLab has published the [16 different user personas they use](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/product/personas/)."

I think this length (or a touch shorter) would be fine. Maybe cut this sentence down to:

- Your user personas should focus on those people you really want your product to reach.
